Improve AsyncAPI tool doc (#4616)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: learn/guides/asyncapi-tool.md

The Ballerina AsyncAPI tool will make it easy for you to start the development of an event API documented in an AsyncAPI contract in Ballerina by generating a Ballerina service and listener skeletons.

## Set up the prerequisites

To run this tutorial, you need the following prerequisites:

1. [Ballerina 2202.1.0 (Swan Lake)](https://ballerina.io/learn/installing-ballerina/setting-up-ballerina/) or greater
2. A text editor
   > **Tip:** Preferably, [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [Ballerina extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.ballerina) installed.

> ## Prepare the AsyncAPI Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prepare the AsyncAPI contract
```

Author: Thanks a lot for the suggestion, Resolved

> > **Prerequisite:** Install the latest [Ballerina Swan Lake distribution](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Prerequisite:** Install the latest [Ballerina Swan Lake distribution](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).
```
Shall we make `Prerequisites` a title?

## Prepare the AsyncAPI Contract

Before using the tool, there are some modifications that should be made by adding some custom tags to the contract.

> Consider the AsyncAPI spec for Slack as an example, To make it simple, a small part of the specification will be used (Find the complete specification [here](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/blob/main/asyncapi/slack/asyncapi.yml))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide uses only a part of the [AsyncAPI specification of Slack](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/blob/main/asyncapi/slack/asyncapi.yml) for the purpose of simplicity.
```

```yaml
asyncapi: 2.1.0
x-ballerina-event-identifier:
 type: "body"
 path: "event.type"
components:
 schemas:
   GenericEventWrapper:
     additionalProperties: true
     description: Adapted from auto-generated content
     properties:
       event:
         additionalProperties: true
         properties:
           event_ts:
             title: When the event was dispatched
             type: string
           type:
             title: The specific name of the event
             type: string
           text:
             title: The message content
             type: string
         required:
           - type
           - event_ts

>          title: "The actual event, an object, that happened"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         title: "The actual event, an object, which happened"
```
What do we mean by `happened` here?

         type: object
     required:
       - event

>      title: Standard event wrapper for the Events API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     title: Standard event wrapper for the events API
```
```suggestion
     title: Standard event wrapper for the Events API
```

     type: object
channels:
 app:
   subscribe:
     message:
       oneOf:
         - x-ballerina-event-type: "app_mention"
           externalDocs:

>              description: Event documentation for app_mention

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
             description: Event documentation for `app_mention`
```
```suggestion
             description: Event documentation for app_mention
```

           payload:
             $ref: "#/components/schemas/GenericEventWrapper"
           summary: Subscribe to only the message events that mention your app or bot
           tags:
             - name: allows_user_tokens
             - name: app_event
           x-scopes-required: []
           x-tokens-allowed:
             - user
	   - x-ballerina-event-type: "app_rate_limited"
           externalDocs:

>              description: Event documentation for app_rate_limited

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
             description: Event documentation for `app_rate_limited`
```

           payload:
             $ref: "#/components/schemas/GenericEventWrapper"

>            summary: Indicates your app's event subscriptions are being rate limited

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           summary: Indicates that your app's event subscriptions are being rate limited
```
```suggestion
           summary: Indicates your app's event subscriptions are being rate limited
```

           tags:
             - name: allows_user_tokens
             - name: app_event
             - name: allows_workspace_tokens
           x-scopes-required: []
           x-tokens-allowed:
             - user
             - workspace
```

> There are custom tags in this yaml starting with `x-ballerina`. It is very important that these tags must be added to the AsyncAPI contract before using the tool. Here is why and for what those tags are being used,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are custom tags in this YAML starting with `x-ballerina`. It is very important that these tags must be added to the AsyncAPI contract before using the tool. The usage of those tags will be as follows.
```
```suggestion
There are custom tags in this yaml starting with `x-ballerina`. It is very important that these tags must be added to the AsyncAPI contract before using the tool. Here is why and for what those tags are being used,
```

1\. `x-ballerina-event-identifier` - When the listener receives an event from the event source (Slack is the event source in this scenario), there should be a way to identify the event type. This includes two parts, `type` and `path`.

> - type - Type can be either header or body. In other words, the type of the event can be included in the payload either as a http header or as an attribute in the body.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- type - Type can be either header or body. In other words, the type of event can be included in the payload either as an HTTP header or as an attribute in the body.
```
```suggestion
- type - Type can be either header or body. In other words, the type of the event can be included in the payload either as a http header or as an attribute in the body.
```

>   > **Note:** Currently, this tool supports only the body property. Hence the path is equal to the JSON path of the attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > **Note:** Currently, this tool supports only the body property. Hence, the path is equal to the JSON path of the attribute.
```
```suggestion
  > **Note:** Currently, this tool supports only the body property. Hence the path is equal to the JSON path of the attribute.
```

> - path - Path is equal to the header-name if the type is header or the json path of the attribute if the type is body.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- path - Path is equal to the header-name if the type is `header`, or the JSON path of the attribute if the type is `body`.
```
```suggestion
- path - Path is equal to the header-name if the type is header or the json path of the attribute if the type is body.
```

  > **Note:** Currently, this tool supports only HTTP-based event APIs.

> 2\. `x-ballerina-event-type` - This should be there in every event inside the channel. This is the name of the event or the value of the above mentioned attribute for a specific event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2\. `x-ballerina-event-type` - This should be there in every event inside the channel. This is the name of the event or the value of the above-mentioned attribute for a specific event.
```
```suggestion
2\. `x-ballerina-event-type` - This should be there in every event inside the channel. This is the name of the event or the value of the above mentioned attribute for a specific event.
```

> ## Generate Ballerina services from AsyncAPI Contracts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Generate Ballerina services from AsyncAPI contracts
```
Please check sentence case in all titles.

> After modifying the AsyncAPI contract, the Ballerina sources can be generated using the below commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After modifying the AsyncAPI contract, the Ballerina sources can be generated using the commands below.
```

```bash
bal asyncapi [-i | --input] <asyncapi-contract-file-path> [-o | --output] <output-location>
```

The generated service can be used as a code template to start the service implementation.
For example,

```bash
bal asyncapi -i hello.yaml
```

This generates a Ballerina source (i.e., the four Ballerina files below) from the given AsyncAPI definition file.

1. `data_types.bal` - contains all the Ballerina data types extracted from the AsyncAPI definition
2. `service_types.bal` - contains all the service types relevant to the event API described in the AsyncAPI definition
3. `listener.bal` - contains the HTTP listener, which listens to the relevant third-party service
4. `dispacther_service.bal` - contains the event dispatching logic

The generated Ballerina sources will be written into the same directory from which the command is run. The above command can be run from anywhere on the execution path. It is not mandatory to run it from within a Ballerina package. If you want to generate Ballerina sources to a specific provided output location, you can modify the above command as below.

```bash
bal asyncapi -i hello.yaml -o ./output_path
```

> Then, the generated files can be modified according to the custom requirements. When modifying the generated code segments, it will be easier to consider the below facts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, the generated files can be modified according to the custom requirements. When modifying the generated code segments, it will be easier to consider the below facts.
```
```suggestion
Then, the generated files can be modified according to the custom requirements. When modifying the generated code segments, it will be easier to consider the below facts
```

> - All the incoming requests will be coming to the resource function in the dispatcher_service.bal file. Hence, if there is a necessity to add an authentication logic for the incoming calls, that logic can be included there before processing the incoming http request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- All the incoming requests will be coming to the resource function in the `dispatcher_service.bal` file. Hence, if there is a necessity to add an authentication logic for the incoming calls, that logic can be included there before processing the incoming HTTP request.
```
```suggestion
- All the incoming requests will be coming to the resource function in the dispatcher_service.bal file. Hence, if there is a necessity to add an authentication logic for the incoming calls, that logic can be included there before processing the incoming http request.
```

> - If more information is needed when initializing the listener like secrets, endpoint urls, tokens, refresh tokens and so on, update the init function in the listener.bal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If more information is needed when initializing the listener like secrets, endpoint URLs, tokens, refresh tokens, and so on, update the `init` function in the `listener.bal` file.
```

> ## Execute the Generated Sources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Execute the generated sources
```
```suggestion
## Execute the Generated Sources
```

> In order to execute the generated Ballerina sources, please follow the below steps,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to execute the generated Ballerina sources.
```

> 1. Go inside the folder where the generated files exist

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the directory in which the generated files exist.
```
```suggestion
1. Go inside the folder where the generated files exist
```

> 2. Execute the command `bal init` - this will generate a Ballerina.toml file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Execute the `bal init` command. 

>**Info:** This will generate a `Ballerina.toml` file.
```

> 3. Create a new ballerina file inside the folder (Ex: slack_service.bal ) and use this piece of code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a new Ballerina file inside the directory (e.g., `slack_service.bal` ) and copy the code below to it.
```

```ballerina
listener Listener webhookListener = new(8090);

service AppService on webhookListener {
   remote function onAppMention(GenericEventWrapper event) returns error? {

>        //implement the logic to use the received `event` here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       //Implement the logic to use the received `event` here.
```

   }
}
```

> That’s it, You can execute the command `bal run` to execute this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, execute the`bal run` command to execute this.
```
Specify what to execute.

Below are some example libraries generated using the tool.

| Module     | AsyncAPI specification                                                                                                                | Generated and modified code                                                                                              | Published module                                                                               |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **Slack**  | <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/blob/main/asyncapi/slack/asyncapi.yml">`asyncapi.yml` of Slack</a>   | <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/tree/main/asyncapi/slack">asyncapi-triggers/slack</a>   | <a href="https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/trigger.slack">ballerinax/trigger.slack</a>   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Slack**  | <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/blob/main/asyncapi/slack/asyncapi.yml">`asyncapi.yml` of Slack</a>   | <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/tree/main/asyncapi/slack">`asyncapi-triggers/slack`</a>   | <a href="https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/trigger.slack">`ballerinax/trigger.slack`</a>   |
```

Author: Thanks a lot for the above suggestions, resolved all.

> | **Twilio** | <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/blob/main/asyncapi/twilio/asyncapi.yml">`asyncapi.yml` of Twilio</a> | <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/tree/main/asyncapi/twilio">asyncapi-triggers/github</a> | <a href="https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/trigger.twilio">ballerinax/trigger.github</a> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Twilio** | <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/blob/main/asyncapi/twilio/asyncapi.yml">`asyncapi.yml` of Twilio</a> | <a href="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/asyncapi-triggers/tree/main/asyncapi/twilio">`asyncapi-triggers/github`</a> | <a href="https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/trigger.twilio">`ballerinax/trigger.github`</a> |
```

Please add all code segments, keywords, filenames, etc. within backticks in the table.

> > **Prerequisite:** Install the latest [Ballerina Swan Lake distribution](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).

Reviewer: We better follow a similar approach to other guides when giving prerequisites. See https://ballerina.io/learn/get-started-with-ballerina/

And since this was introduced later in SL , mention the exact version such as `[Ballerina 2202.1.0 (Swan Lake)](https://ballerina.io/learn/installing-ballerina/setting-up-ballerina/) or greater`

           externalDocs:
             description: Event documentation for `app_mention`
           payload:
             $ref: "#/components/schemas/GenericEventWrapper"
           summary: Subscribe to only the message events that mention your app or bot
           tags:
             - name: allows_user_tokens
             - name: app_event
           x-scopes-required: []
           x-tokens-allowed:
             - user
	   - x-ballerina-event-type: "app_rate_limited"
           externalDocs:
             description: Event documentation for `app_rate_limited`
           payload:
             $ref: "#/components/schemas/GenericEventWrapper"
           summary: Indicates that your app's event subscriptions are being rate limited
           tags:
             - name: allows_user_tokens
             - name: app_event
             - name: allows_workspace_tokens
           x-scopes-required: []
           x-tokens-allowed:
             - user
             - workspace
```

There are custom tags in this YAML starting with `x-ballerina`. It is very important that these tags must be added to the AsyncAPI contract before using the tool. The usage of those tags will be as follows.

> 1\. `x-ballerina-event-identifier` - When the listener receives an event from the event source (Slack is the event source in this scenario), there should be a way to identify the event type. This includes two parts, `type` and `path`.

Author: Thanks a lot for the suggestion, Resolved

> - type - Type can be either header or body. In other words, the type of event can be included in the payload either as an HTTP header or as an attribute in the body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type` - Type can be either header or body. In other words, the type of event can be included in the payload either as an HTTP header or as an attribute in the body.
```

Author: Thanks a lot for the suggestion, Resolved

  > **Note:** Currently, this tool supports only the body property. Hence, the path is equal to the JSON path of the attribute.

> - path - Path is equal to the header-name if the type is `header`, or the JSON path of the attribute if the type is `body`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `path` - Path is equal to the header-name if the type is `header`, or the JSON path of the attribute if the type is `body`.
```

Author: Thanks a lot for the suggestion, Resolved

  > **Note:** Currently, this tool supports only HTTP-based event APIs.

> 2\. `x-ballerina-event-type` - This should be there in every event inside the channel. This is the name of the event or the value of the above-mentioned attribute for a specific event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2\. `x-ballerina-event-type` - This should be there in every event inside the channel. This is the name of the event or the value of the attribute mentioned above for a specific event.
```

bal asyncapi -i hello.yaml -o ./output_path
```

Then, the generated files can be modified according to the custom requirements. When modifying the generated code segments, it will be easier to consider the below facts.

- All the incoming requests will be coming to the resource function in the `dispatcher_service.bal` file. Hence, if there is a necessity to add an authentication logic for the incoming calls, that logic can be included there before processing the incoming HTTP request.

> - If more information is needed when initializing the listener like secrets, endpoint URLs, tokens, refresh tokens, and so on, update the `init` function in the `listener.bal` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If more information is needed when initializing the listener such as secrets, endpoint URLs, tokens, refresh tokens, etc., update the `init` function in the `listener.bal` file.
```

Author: Thanks a lot for the suggestion, Resolved

## Execute the generated sources

Follow the steps below to execute the generated Ballerina sources.

1\. Navigate to the directory in which the generated files exist.
2\. Execute the `bal init` command.

> **Info:** This will generate a `Ballerina.toml` file.

3\. Create a new Ballerina file inside the directory (e.g., `slack_service.bal` ) and copy the code below to it.

```ballerina
listener Listener webhookListener = new(8090);

service AppService on webhookListener {
   remote function onAppMention(GenericEventWrapper event) returns error? {
       //Implement the logic to use the received `event` here.
   }
}
```

> 4\. Execute the`bal run` command to execute this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4\. Execute the `bal run` command to execute this.
```

Author: Thanks a lot for the suggestion, Resolved
